This class has been a tremendous learning experience for me. 
My growth as a digital historian, and as a user of technology has been undeniable over the last six weeks. 
As a digital historian, I have learned about exciting resources that can help me to model historical data and find its significance. 
This is exciting to me because these are the tools that are going to advance the discipline in upcoming years and change how we study our histories. 
I have also become much more confident and comfortable with using digital resources in my studies. 
The exercises in this course have allowed me to develop my digital literacy to a point where I feel capable of navigating technical instructions, properly asking for help, and using basic tools without feeling overwhelmed.
I even developed a new interest in the sonification of history and other digital representations of history that we explored in week five.
This is a big accomplishment for me, given my absolute novice status in digital history prior to the beginning of this term. 
In general, my resilience in the face of technical failure has benefitted. More often than not in this class, I experienced failure to some degree during an exercise. 
I had to adapt to struggling with the programs, vocabulary, etc. and it was because of this that I matured as a student. 
The concept of failing gloriously which you discussed in week one was certainly relatable. Throughout the class, I was limited by my tech skills in how far I could really go without getting lost and confused. 
However, by struggling through this and applying my best efforts I honed my troubleshooting skills and my patience, amongst the other things which I’ve already mentioned. 

Week six turned out to be an success for me, despite struggling at first. 
I was able to find a subject of study in the diaries of Florence Bailey, a distinguished ornithologist. 
The research of a body of text turned out to be an ideal matchup for my digital skillset.
I was able to use the tools I had a grasp of in the course to clean up the data in the diaries, analyze it in the Voyant application, and also use Excel to model numerical data. 
I felt that this was a successful project for me because through this analysis, I was able to answer certain questions I had, but more importantly it created new questions to be answered in a next stage of research. 

I could certainly apply what I’ve learned in this course to my other studies. 
Some of the things that I had a more complete grasp of: organizing my work with applications like Zotero and Hypothesis, cleaning up data, modeling my data using Excel and Voyant, and using apps to demonstrate my finished work, can all be used to advance my learning in any class regardless of the content. 
These are skills that I wish I had in previous classes.
Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to get around to exploring websites and how to build one by hand, which is something that I would really like to accomplish.
I’m currently transitioning from my student life to professional life, so building a public interface would certainly be a valuable skill. 

My understanding of digital history has expanded greatly since starting the class when I really had no idea what to expect outside of brief conversations about it with classmates. 
Little did I know that there was an entire economy of applications that I could harness to propel my historical studies at every stage of the research process from discovery, to fleshing out the data, visualizing it, and so on. 
It’s an extremely valuable discipline; history is such a complex matter that digital tools have the capability of breaking down in a unique way that wouldn’t have been considered before. 

Although I am not the most technologically inclined person, I was able to garner a great deal of experience and knowledge from the weekly exercises that translate into the learning outcomes having been fulfilled. 
I can confidently say that I deserve a B+ in the course.







